# Research Journal

## 27/12/2020
- I have reviewed the code implemented in `microgrid2.py` for solving the optimization problem. I improved the presentation of the previous version of the script, and checked the results. So far it seems to be working OK

## 26/12/2020
- There must be a causal relation between the rain precipitation levels and the energy price in the market, given that most of the energy generated in Colombia comes from hydroelectric plants. Maybe I could use a LSTM network for predicting the market price based on historic IDEAM measurements of weather variables. I should try to find out if there is data from locations with hydro power plants.
- I checked the information available on [XM](http://www.xm.com). This company is in charge of the energy market exchange in Colombia. There is information available regarding market prices, grid operation measurements, etc.

## 12/02/2020
Meeting with Adrian
We discussed the different possibilities for determining the energy price in the context of the microgrid. He suggested three possibilities to the problem:
1. Use an approach where the price is dynamically computed based on changes in market price and use of the distribution network (depends on PV and load).
2. Use CREG 015/2018 to compute the prices for three different time intervals.
3. Just using market prices.

## 06/08/2019
Meeting with Adrian, Andres - Energy Management Project
- Datos: Maximo punto de potencia.
- Voltaje, Corriente panel / batería, potencia.
- Radiación en el panel, eficiencia del convertidor (algunos datos disponibles del IDEAM, otros provenientes de paneles instalados en el edificio de ingeniería).
- Resolución creg 030 de 2018: precio de la energía.
- Cargas residenciales (aleatorias, escuela).
- Precio de la energía: abierto (legislación muy reciente), usar varios casos con diferentes esquemas de remuneración.
- State of Charge: tratar de determinarlo para las baterías disponibles, buscar literatura, o asumir algunos valores mínimos y máximos.
- Definir entorno de modelamiento: GAMS o python.
- Script de GAMS disponible para un ejemplo de microred.
- Script de python - gurobi disponible.
- Esperar documentación, papers relevantes.
- Hablar con Diego Bernal, Alberto Avila para obtener datos.

# Energy Dispatch in Microgrid

## Components
- Photovoltaic system:
  - Solar panels: to include this panels in the mathematical problem we require to know the efficiency and the effective area.
  - DC-DC converter: We require to know the efficiency of this converter
- Battery storage: We require to know the maximum capacity of the battery bank
- Loads: We have to consider several cases. The first one is to have a load profile signal that characterizes the power consumption throughout the day. The second is when we have control over the loads that are turned on or off at each time instant.
- Distribution grid: This supplies the power that required when the solar panels and batteries are not enough

## Data needed in the mathematical model
- Price curves: I found the websites [powersmartpricing](https://www.powersmartpricing.org) and [hourlypricing](https://hourlypricing.comed.com). These offer day-ahead prices and real-time prices. Also there is an API that returns the prices for http requests.
- Solar radiation: The IDEAM website allows to download historical datasets with different variables from diferent stations. I could use this data to train a model for perform day-ahead predictions on the solar radiation levels. I implemented an estimator for forecasting day-ahead solar radiation values based on a history of past measurements for multiple variables. This was done using deep neural networks implemented in Tensorflow 2.0.
- Solar panel efficiency: This is required to estimate the output power of the photovoltaic system.

## Mathematical model
The first model we consider involves the use of day-ahead prices gathered from one of the websites mentioned before, a predefined load curve and solar radiation data gathered from the IDEAM website. The problem is to decide when to charge and discharge the batteries in order to minimize the cost of the energy drawn from the distribution grid. We have to use the solar radiation values to compute the power generated by the photovoltaic array. Let us define the following variables:
$t$: Time of day in hours.  
$p_d(t)$: Power drawn from the distribution grid at time $t$ in [kW].  
$r_v(t)$: Solar radiation at time $t$ in [kW/m^2].  
$p_v(t)$: Power generated by the photovoltaic array at time $t$ in [kW].  
$p_l(t)$: Power consumed by the loads at time $t$ in [kW].  
$p_{ch}(t)$: Charge power delivered to the batteries at time $t$ in [kW].  
$p_{dch}(t)$: Discharge power extracted from the batteries at time $t$ in [kW].  
$e_s(t)$: Stored energy in the batteries at time $t$ in [kWh].  
$c_d(t)$: Cost of energy drawn from the distribution grid at time $t$ in [USD].  
$\eta_{ch}$: Battery AC/DC charge efficiency  
$\eta_{dch}$: Battery AC/DC discharge efficiency  
$\eta_v$: Photovoltaic AC/DC converter efficiency  
